For release at 2 p.m. EDT  

September 22, 2021 

The Federal Reserve is committed to using its full range of tools to support the 
U.S. economy in this challenging time, thereby promoting its maximum employment 
and price stability goals. 

With progress on vaccinations and strong policy support, indicators of economic 
activity and employment have continued to strengthen.  The sectors most adversely 
affected by the pandemic have improved in recent months, but the rise in COVID-19 
cases has slowed their recovery.  Inflation is elevated, largely reflecting transitory 
factors.  Overall financial conditions remain accommodative, in part reflecting policy 
measures to support the economy and the flow of credit to U.S. households and 
businesses. 

The path of the economy continues to depend on the course of the virus.  Progress 
on vaccinations will likely continue to reduce the effects of the public health crisis on 
the economy, but risks to the economic outlook remain. 

The Committee seeks to achieve maximum employment and inflation at the rate 
of 2 percent over the longer run.  With inflation having run persistently below this 
2 percent for some time so that inflation averages 2 percent over time and longer‑term 
longer-run goal, the Committee will aim to achieve inflation moderately above 
inflation expectations remain well anchored at 2 percent.  The Committee expects to 
maintain an accommodative stance of monetary policy until these outcomes are 
achieved.  The Committee decided to keep the target range for the federal funds rate 
at 0 to 1/4 percent and expects it will be appropriate to maintain this target range until 
labor market conditions have reached levels consistent with the Committee’s  

(more) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For release at 2 p.m. EDT 

September 22, 2021 

-2- 

assessments of maximum employment and inflation has risen to 2 percent and is on 
track to moderately exceed 2 percent for some time.  Last December, the Committee 
least $80 billion per month and of agency mortgage‑backed securities by at least $40 
indicated that it would continue to increase its holdings of Treasury securities by at 
billion per month until substantial further progress has been made toward its 
maximum employment and price stability goals.  Since then, the economy has made 
progress toward these goals.  If progress continues broadly as expected, the 
Committee judges that a moderation in the pace of asset purchases may soon be 
warranted.  These asset purchases help foster smooth market functioning and 
accommodative financial conditions, thereby supporting the flow of credit to 
households and businesses. 

In assessing the appropriate stance of monetary policy, the Committee will 
continue to monitor the implications of incoming information for the economic 
outlook.  The Committee would be prepared to adjust the stance of monetary policy 
as appropriate if risks emerge that could impede the attainment of the Committee’s 
goals.  The Committee’s assessments will take into account a wide range of 
information, including readings on public health, labor market conditions, inflation 
pressures and inflation expectations, and financial and international developments. 

Voting for the monetary policy action were Jerome H. Powell, Chair; John C. 
Williams, Vice Chair; Thomas I. Barkin; Raphael W. Bostic; Michelle W. Bowman; 
Lael Brainard; Richard H. Clarida; Mary C. Daly; Charles L. Evans; Randal K. 
Quarles; and Christopher J. Waller. 

-0- 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For release at 2 p.m. EDT 

September 22, 2021 

Decisions Regarding Monetary Policy Implementation 
The Federal Reserve has made the following decisions to implement the monetary policy 
stance announced by the Federal Open Market Committee in its statement on September 
22, 2021: 
• The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted unanimously to 
maintain the interest rate paid on reserve balances at 0.15 percent, effective 
September 23, 2021.  
• As part of its policy decision, the Federal Open Market Committee voted to 
authorize and direct the Open Market Desk at the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York, until instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Open Market 
Account in accordance with the following domestic policy directive: 
“Effective September 23, 2021, the Federal Open Market Committee directs the 
Desk to: 
o Undertake open market operations as necessary to maintain the federal 
funds rate in a target range of 0 to 1/4 percent. 
o Increase the System Open Market Account holdings of Treasury 
securities by $80 billion per month and of agency mortgage-backed 
securities (MBS) by $40 billion per month. 
o Increase holdings of Treasury securities and agency MBS by additional 
amounts and purchase agency commercial mortgage-backed securities 
(CMBS) as needed to sustain smooth functioning of markets for these 
securities. 
o Conduct overnight repurchase agreement operations with a minimum bid 
rate of 0.25 percent and with an aggregate operation limit of $500 billion; 
the aggregate operation limit can be temporarily increased at the 
discretion of the Chair. 
o Conduct overnight reverse repurchase agreement operations at an offering 
rate of 0.05 percent and with a per-counterparty limit of $160 billion per 
day; the per-counterparty limit can be temporarily increased at the 
discretion of the Chair. 
o Roll over at auction all principal payments from the Federal Reserve's 
holdings of Treasury securities and reinvest all principal payments from 
the Federal Reserve's holdings of agency debt and agency MBS in agency 
MBS. 
o Allow modest deviations from stated amounts for purchases and 
reinvestments, if needed for operational reasons. 
o Engage in dollar roll and coupon swap transactions as necessary to 
facilitate settlement of the Federal Reserve's agency MBS transactions.” 

(more) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For release at 2 p.m. EDT 

September 22, 2021 

-2- 

• 

In a related action, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
voted unanimously to approve the establishment of the primary credit rate at the 
existing level of 0.25 percent. 

This information will be updated as appropriate to reflect decisions of the Federal Open 
Market Committee or the Board of Governors regarding details of the Federal Reserve’s 
operational tools and approach used to implement monetary policy. 
More information regarding open market operations and reinvestments may be found on 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s website. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
