For release a t 2 p.m. EST 

January 31, 2018 

Information received since the Federa l Open Market Committee met in December 
indicates that the labor market ha s continued to strengthen and that economic activity ha s 
been r ising a t a solid rate.  Gains in employment, hou sehold spending, and business fixed 
investment have been solid, and the unemployment rate ha s stayed low.  On a 12-month 
basis, both overall inflation and inflation for items other than food and energy have 
continu ed to run below 2 percent.  Mark et-based mea sures of inflation compensation 
have increa sed in recent months but remain low; survey-ba sed mea sures of longer-term 
inflation expectations are little changed, on balance. 
Consistent with its statutory manda te, the Committee seek s to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  The Committee expects tha t, with further gradual 
adjustments in the stance of monetary policy, economic activity will expand at a 
moderate pace and labor market conditions will remain strong.  Infla tion on a 12-month 
basis is expected to move up this year and to stabilize around the Committee’s 2 percent 
objective over the medium term.  Near-term risk s to the economic outlook appear roughly 
balanced, but the Committee is monitoring inflation developments closely. 
In view of realized and expected labor market conditions and inflation, the 
Committee decided to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 1-1/4 to 
1-1/2 percent.  The stance of monetary policy remains accommoda tive, thereby 
supporting strong labor mark et conditions and a su stained return to 2 percent inflation. 
In determining the timing and size of future adju stments to the target range for the 
federal funds rate, the Committee will a ssess realized and expected economic conditions 
relative to its objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation.  This 
assessment will take into account a wide range of information, including measures of 
labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and  

(more) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For release a t 2 p.m. EST 

January 31, 2018 

- 2 - 
readings on financial and international developments.  The Committee will carefully 
monitor actual and expected inflation developments relative to its symmetric inflation 
goal .  The Committee expects that economic conditions will evolve in a manner that will 
warrant further gradual increa ses in the federal funds ra te; the federal funds rate is lik ely 
to remain, for some time, below levels that are expected to prevail in the longer run.  
However, the actual path of the federal funds rate will depend on the economic outlook a s 
informed by incoming data. 
Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were Janet L. Yellen, Chair; 
William C. Dudley, Vice Chairman; Thoma s I . Barkin; Raphael W . Bostic; Lael 
Brainard; Loretta J. Mester; Jerome H. Powell; Randal K. Quarles; and John C. Williams. 

- 0 - 

 
 
 
For release a t 2 p.m. EST 

January 31, 2018 

Decisions Regarding Monetary Policy Implementation 

The Federal Reserve ha s made the following decisions to implement the monetary policy stance 
announced by the Federal Open Market Committee in its statement on Janua ry 31, 2018: 

• The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted unanimously to maintain 
the interest rate paid on required and excess reserve ba lances at 1.50 percent , effective 
February 1, 2018. 

• As part of its policy decision, the Federal Open Mark et Committee voted to authorize and 
direct the Open Mark et Desk at the Federa l Reserve Bank of New York, until instru cted 
otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Open Market Account in accordance 
with the following domestic policy directive:  

“Effective February 1, 2018, the Federa l Open Market Committee directs the 
Desk to undertake open market operations a s necessary to maintain the federal 
funds ra te in a target range of 1-1/4 to 1-1/2 percent , including overnight reverse 
repurcha se operations (and reverse repurchase operations with maturities of more 
than one day when necessary to accommoda te week end, holiday, or similar 
trading conventions) at an offering rate of 1.25 percent, in amounts limited only 
by the valu e of Treasury securities held outright in the System Open Market 
Account that are available for su ch operations and by a per-counterpar ty limit of 
$30 billion per day. 

The Committee directs the Desk to continu e rolling over at auction the amount of 
principal payments from the Federal Reserve’s holdings of Treasury securities 
maturing during each calendar month that exceeds $12 billion, and to reinvest in 
agency mor tgage-backed securities the amount of principal payments from the 
Federal Reserve’s holdings of agency debt and agency mor tgage-backed 
securities received during each calendar month that exceeds $8 billion.  Sma ll 
deviations from these amounts for operational rea sons are acceptable. 

The Committee also directs the Desk to engage in dollar roll and coupon swap 
transactions as necessary to facilita te settlement of the Federal Reserve’s agency 
mortgage-back ed securities transactions.” 

• 

In a related action, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted 
unanimously to approve the establishment of the primary credit rate at the existing level 
of 2.00 percent. 

(more) 

 
 
 
 
For release a t 2 p.m. EST 

January 31, 2018 

- 2 - 

This information will be updated a s appropriate to reflect decisions of the Federal Open Market 
Committee or the Board of Governors regarding details of the Federal Reserve’s operational 
tools and approach u sed to implement monetary policy. 

More information regarding open mark et operations and reinvestments may be found on the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s website. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
