For release at 2 p.m. EDT 

     April 27, 2016 

Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in March indicates 
that labor market conditions have improved further even as growth in economic activity appears 
to have slowed.  Growth in household spending has moderated, although households’ real 
income has risen at a solid rate and consumer sentiment remains high.  Since the beginning of the 
year, the housing sector has improved further but business fixed investment and net exports have 
been soft.  A range of recent indicators, including strong job gains, points to additional 
strengthening of the labor market.  Inflation has continued to run below the Committee’s 
2 percent longer-run objective, partly reflecting earlier declines in energy prices and falling 
prices of non-energy imports.  Market-based measures of inflation compensation remain low; 
survey-based measures of longer-term inflation expectations are little changed, on balance, in 
recent months. 
Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  The Committee currently expects that, with gradual adjustments 
in the stance of monetary policy, economic activity will expand at a moderate pace and labor 
market indicators will continue to strengthen.  Inflation is expected to remain low in the near 
term, in part because of earlier declines in energy prices, but to rise to 2 percent over the medium 
term as the transitory effects of declines in energy and import prices dissipate and the labor 
market strengthens further.  The Committee continues to closely monitor inflation indicators and 
global economic and financial developments. 
Against this backdrop, the Committee decided to maintain the target range for the federal 
funds rate at 1/4 to 1/2 percent.  The stance of monetary policy remains accommodative, thereby 
supporting further improvement in labor market conditions and a return to 2 percent inflation. 
In determining the timing and size of future adjustments to the target range for the federal 
funds rate, the Committee will assess realized and expected economic conditions relative to its  
(more) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-2- 
objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation.  This assessment will take into 
account a wide range of information, including measures of labor market conditions, indicators 
of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial and international 
developments.  In light of the current shortfall of inflation from 2 percent, the Committee will 
carefully monitor actual and expected progress toward its inflation goal.  The Committee expects 
that economic conditions will evolve in a manner that will warrant only gradual increases in the 
federal funds rate; the federal funds rate is likely to remain, for some time, below levels that are 
expected to prevail in the longer run.  However, the actual path of the federal funds rate will 
depend on the economic outlook as informed by incoming data. 
The Committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from 
its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed 
securities and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction, and it anticipates doing so 
until normalization of the level of the federal funds rate is well under way.  This policy, by 
keeping the Committee’s holdings of longer-term securities at sizable levels, should help 
maintain accommodative financial conditions. 
Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Janet L. Yellen, Chair; William C. 
Dudley, Vice Chairman; Lael Brainard; James Bullard; Stanley Fischer; Loretta J. Mester; 
Jerome H. Powell; Eric Rosengren; and Daniel K. Tarullo. Voting against the action was Esther 
L. George, who preferred at this meeting to raise the target range for the federal funds rate to 1/2 
to 3/4 percent. 

- 0 - 

 
 
For release at 2 p.m. EDT 

April 27, 2016 

Decisions Regarding Monetary Policy Implementation 

The Federal Reserve has made the following decisions to implement the monetary policy 
stance announced by the Federal Open Market Committee in its statement on April 27, 
2016: 

• The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System left unchanged the 
interest rate paid on required and excess reserve balances at 0.50 percent. 

• As part of its policy decision, the Federal Open Market Committee voted to 
authorize and direct the Open Market Desk at the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York, until instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Open 
Market Account in accordance with the following domestic policy directive:  

“Effective April 28, 2016, the Federal Open Market Committee directs the Desk 
to undertake open market operations as necessary to maintain the federal funds 
rate in a target range of 1/4 to 1/2 percent, including overnight reverse repurchase 
operations (and reverse repurchase operations with maturities of more than one 
day when necessary to accommodate weekend, holiday, or similar trading 
conventions) at an offering rate of 0.25 percent, in amounts limited only by the 
value of Treasury securities held outright in the System Open Market Account 
that are available for such operations and by a per-counterparty limit of $30 
billion per day. 

The Committee directs the Desk to continue rolling over maturing Treasury 
securities at auction and to continue reinvesting principal payments on all agency 
debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed 
securities.  The Committee also directs the Desk to engage in dollar roll and 
coupon swap transactions as necessary to facilitate settlement of the Federal 
Reserve’s agency mortgage-backed securities transactions.” 

More information regarding open market operations may be found on the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York’s website. 

• The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System took no action to change 
the discount rate (the primary credit rate), which remains at 1.00 percent. 

This information will be updated as appropriate to reflect decisions of the Federal Open 
Market Committee or the Board of Governors regarding details of the Federal Reserve’s 
operational tools and approach used to implement monetary policy. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
