For release at 2 p.m. EST 

December 11, 2019 

Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in October 
indicates that the labor market remains strong and that economic activity has been rising 
at a moderate rate.  Job gains have been solid, on average, in recent months, and the 
unemployment rate has remained low.  Although household spending has been rising at a 
strong pace, business fixed investment and exports remain weak.  On a 12-month basis, 
overall inflation and inflation for items other than food and energy are running below 2 
percent.  Market-based measures of inflation compensation remain low; survey-based 
measures of longer-term inflation expectations are little changed. 
Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  The Committee decided to maintain the target range for 
the federal funds rate at 1-1/2 to 1-3/4 percent.  The Committee judges that the current 
stance of monetary policy is appropriate to support sustained expansion of economic 
activity, strong labor market conditions, and inflation near the Committee’s symmetric 
2 percent objective.  The Committee will continue to monitor the implications of 
incoming information for the economic outlook, including global developments and 
muted inflation pressures, as it assesses the appropriate path of the target range for the 
federal funds rate. 
In determining the timing and size of future adjustments to the target range for the 
federal funds rate, the Committee will assess realized and expected economic conditions 
relative to its maximum employment objective and its symmetric 2 percent inflation 
objective.  This assessment will take into account a wide range of information, including 
measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation 
expectations, and readings on financial and international developments. 

(more) 

 
 
 
 
For release at 2 p.m. EST 

December 11, 2019 

- 2 - 
Voting for the monetary policy action were Jerome H. Powell, Chair; John C. 
Williams, Vice Chair; Michelle W. Bowman; Lael Brainard; James Bullard; Richard H. 
Clarida; Charles L. Evans; Esther L. George; Randal K. Quarles; and Eric S. Rosengren. 

- 0 - 

 
 
 
For release at 2 p.m. EST 

December 11, 2019 

Decisions Regarding Monetary Policy Implementation 
The Federal Reserve has made the following decisions to implement the monetary policy 
stance announced by the Federal Open Market Committee in its statement on December 
11, 2019: 
• The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted unanimously to 
maintain the interest rate paid on required and excess reserve balances at 1.55 
percent, effective December 12, 2019.  
• As part of its policy decision, the Federal Open Market Committee voted to 
authorize and direct the Open Market Desk at the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York, until instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Open Market 
Account in accordance with the following domestic policy directive: 
“Effective December 12, 2019, the Federal Open Market Committee directs the 
Desk to undertake open market operations as necessary to maintain the federal 
funds rate in a target range of 1-1/2 to 1-3/4 percent.  In light of recent and 
expected increases in the Federal Reserve’s non-reserve liabilities, the Committee 
directs the Desk to continue purchasing Treasury bills at least into the second 
quarter of 2020 to maintain over time ample reserve balances at or above the level 
that prevailed in early September 2019.  The Committee also directs the Desk to 
continue conducting term and overnight repurchase agreement operations at least 
through January 2020 to ensure that the supply of reserves remains ample even 
during periods of sharp increases in non-reserve liabilities, and to mitigate the risk 
of money market pressures that could adversely affect policy implementation.  In 
addition, the Committee directs the Desk to conduct overnight reverse repurchase 
operations (and reverse repurchase operations with maturities of more than one 
day when necessary to accommodate weekend, holiday, or similar trading 
conventions) at an offering rate of 1.45 percent, in amounts limited only by the 
value of Treasury securities held outright in the System Open Market Account 
that are available for such operations and by a per-counterparty limit of $30 
billion per day.  

The Committee directs the Desk to continue rolling over at auction all principal 
payments from the Federal Reserve’s holdings of Treasury securities and to 
continue reinvesting all principal payments from the Federal Reserve’s holdings 
of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities received during each 
calendar month.  Principal payments from agency debt and agency mortgage-
backed securities up to $20 billion per month will continue to be reinvested in 
Treasury securities to roughly match the maturity composition of Treasury 
securities outstanding; principal payments in excess of $20 billion per month will 
continue to be reinvested in agency mortgage-backed securities.  Small deviations 
from these amounts for operational reasons are acceptable. 

(more) 

 
 
 
For release at 2 p.m. EST 

December 11, 2019 

- 2 - 
The Committee also directs the Desk to engage in dollar roll and coupon swap 
transactions as necessary to facilitate settlement of the Federal Reserve's agency 
mortgage-backed securities transactions.”  

• 

In a related action, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted 
unanimously to approve the establishment of the primary credit rate at the existing 
level of 2.25 percent. 
This information will be updated as appropriate to reflect decisions of the Federal Open 
Market Committee or the Board of Governors regarding details of the Federal Reserve’s 
operational tools and approach used to implement monetary policy. 
More information regarding open market operations and reinvestments may be found on 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s website. 

- 0 - 

 
 
 
 
