For release at 2 p.m. EDT 

September 21, 2016 

Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in July indicates that 
the labor market has continued to strengthen and growth of economic activity has picked up from 
the modest pace seen in the first half of this year.  Although the unemployment rate is little 
changed in recent months, job gains have been solid, on average.  Household spending has been 
growing strongly but business fixed investment has remained soft.  Inflation has continued to run 
below the Committee’s 2 percent longer-run objective, partly reflecting earlier declines in energy 
prices and in prices of non-energy imports.  Market-based measures of inflation compensation 
remain low; most survey-based measures of longer-term inflation expectations are little changed, 
on balance, in recent months.   
Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  The Committee expects that, with gradual adjustments in the 
stance of monetary policy, economic activity will expand at a moderate pace and labor market 
conditions will strengthen somewhat further.  Inflation is expected to remain low in the near 
term, in part because of earlier declines in energy prices, but to rise to 2 percent over the medium 
term as the transitory effects of past declines in energy and import prices dissipate and the labor 
market strengthens further.  Near-term risks to the economic outlook appear roughly balanced.  
The Committee continues to closely monitor inflation indicators and global economic and 
financial developments.   
Against this backdrop, the Committee decided to maintain the target range for the federal 
funds rate at 1/4 to 1/2 percent.  The Committee judges that the case for an increase in the federal 
funds rate has strengthened but decided, for the time being, to wait for further evidence of 
continued progress toward its objectives.  The stance of monetary policy remains 
accommodative, thereby supporting further improvement in labor market conditions and a return 
to 2 percent inflation.   

(more) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 2 - 
In determining the timing and size of future adjustments to the target range for the federal 
funds rate, the Committee will assess realized and expected economic conditions relative to its 
objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation.  This assessment will take into 
account a wide range of information, including measures of labor market conditions, indicators 
of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial and international 
developments.  In light of the current shortfall of inflation from 2 percent, the Committee will 
carefully monitor actual and expected progress toward its inflation goal.  The Committee expects 
that economic conditions will evolve in a manner that will warrant only gradual increases in the 
federal funds rate; the federal funds rate is likely to remain, for some time, below levels that are 
expected to prevail in the longer run.  However, the actual path of the federal funds rate will 
depend on the economic outlook as informed by incoming data.   
The Committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from 
its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed 
securities and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction, and it anticipates doing so 
until normalization of the level of the federal funds rate is well under way.  This policy, by 
keeping the Committee’s holdings of longer-term securities at sizable levels, should help 
maintain accommodative financial conditions. 
Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Janet L. Yellen, Chair; William C. 
Dudley, Vice Chairman; Lael Brainard; James Bullard; Stanley Fischer; Jerome H. Powell; and 
Daniel K. Tarullo.  Voting against the action were: Esther L. George, Loretta J. Mester, and Eric 
Rosengren, each of whom preferred at this meeting to raise the target range for the federal funds 
rate to 1/2 to 3/4 percent. 

- 0 - 

 
For release at 2 p.m. EDT 

September 21, 2016 

Decisions Regarding Monetary Policy Implementation 

The Federal Reserve has made the following decisions to implement the monetary policy stance 
announced by the Federal Open Market Committee in its statement on September 21, 2016: 

• The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System left unchanged the interest rate 
paid on required and excess reserve balances at 0.50 percent. 

• As part of its policy decision, the Federal Open Market Committee voted to authorize and 
direct the Open Market Desk at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until instructed 
otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Open Market Account in accordance 
with the following domestic policy directive:  

“Effective September 22, 2016, the Federal Open Market Committee directs the Desk 
to undertake open market operations as necessary to maintain the federal funds rate in 
a target range of 1/4 to 1/2 percent, including overnight reverse repurchase operations 
(and reverse repurchase operations with maturities of more than one day when 
necessary to accommodate weekend, holiday, or similar trading conventions) at an 
offering rate of 0.25 percent, in amounts limited only by the value of Treasury 
securities held outright in the System Open Market Account that are available for 
such operations and by a per-counterparty limit of $30 billion per day. 

The Committee directs the Desk to continue rolling over maturing Treasury securities 
at auction and to continue reinvesting principal payments on all agency debt and 
agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities.  The 
Committee also directs the Desk to engage in dollar roll and coupon swap 
transactions as necessary to facilitate settlement of the Federal Reserve’s agency 
mortgage-backed securities transactions.” 

More information regarding open market operations may be found on the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York’s website. 

• The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System took no action to change the 
discount rate (the primary credit rate), which remains at 1.00 percent. 

This information will be updated as appropriate to reflect decisions of the Federal Open Market 
Committee or the Board of Governors regarding details of the Federal Reserve’s operational 
tools and approach used to implement monetary policy. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
