For release at 2 p.m. EST 

January 30, 2019 

Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in December 
indicates that the labor market has continued to strengthen and that economic activity has 
been rising at a solid rate.  Job gains have been strong, on average, in recent months, and 
the unemployment rate has remained low.  Household spending has continued to grow 
strongly, while growth of business fixed investment has moderated from its rapid pace 
earlier last year.  On a 12-month basis, both overall inflation and inflation for items other 
than food and energy remain near 2 percent.  Although market-based measures of 
inflation compensation have moved lower in recent months, survey-based measures of 
longer-term inflation expectations are little changed. 
Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  In support of these goals, the Committee decided to 
maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 2-1/4 to 2-1/2 percent.  The 
Committee continues to view sustained expansion of economic activity, strong labor 
market conditions, and inflation near the Committee’s symmetric 2 percent objective as 
the most likely outcomes.  In light of global economic and financial developments and 
muted inflation pressures, the Committee will be patient as it determines what future 
adjustments to the target range for the federal funds rate may be appropriate to support 
these outcomes.   
In determining the timing and size of future adjustments to the target range for the 
federal funds rate, the Committee will assess realized and expected economic conditions 
relative to its maximum employment objective and its symmetric 2 percent inflation 
objective.  This assessment will take into account a wide range of information, including 
measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation  

(more) 

 
 
 
 
 
For release at 2 p.m. EST 

January 30, 2019 

- 2 - 
expectations, and readings on financial and international developments. 
Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Jerome H. Powell, Chairman; 
John C. Williams, Vice Chairman; Michelle W. Bowman; Lael Brainard; James Bullard; 
Richard H. Clarida; Charles L. Evans; Esther L. George; Randal K. Quarles; and Eric S. 
Rosengren. 

- 0 - 

 
 
 
 
For release at 2 p.m. EST 

January 30, 2019 

Decisions Regarding Monetary Policy Implementation 

The Federal Reserve has made the following decisions to implement the monetary policy 
stance announced by the Federal Open Market Committee in its statement on January 30, 
2019: 

• The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted unanimously to 
maintain the interest rate paid on required and excess reserve balances at 2.40 
percent, effective January 31, 2019. 

• As part of its policy decision, the Federal Open Market Committee voted to 
authorize and direct the Open Market Desk at the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York, until instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Open 
Market Account in accordance with the following domestic policy directive: 

“Effective January 31, 2019, the Federal Open Market Committee directs 
the Desk to undertake open market operations as necessary to maintain the 
federal funds rate in a target range of 2-1/4 to 2-1/2 percent, including 
overnight reverse repurchase operations (and reverse repurchase 
operations with maturities of more than one day when necessary to 
accommodate weekend, holiday, or similar trading conventions) at an 
offering rate of 2.25 percent, in amounts limited only by the value of 
Treasury securities held outright in the System Open Market Account that 
are available for such operations and by a per counterparty limit of $30 
billion per day. 

The Committee directs the Desk to continue rolling over at auction the 
amount of principal payments from the Federal Reserve’s holdings of 
Treasury securities maturing during each calendar month that exceeds $30 
billion, and to continue reinvesting in agency mortgage-backed securities 
the amount of principal payments from the Federal Reserve’s holdings of 
agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities received during each 
calendar month that exceeds $20 billion.  Small deviations from these 
amounts for operational reasons are acceptable. 

The Committee also directs the Desk to engage in dollar roll and coupon 
swap transactions as necessary to facilitate settlement of the Federal 
Reserve’s agency mortgage-backed securities transactions.” 

• 

In a related action, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted 
unanimously to approve the establishment of the primary credit rate at the existing 
level of 3.00 percent. 

(more) 

 
For release at 2 p.m. EST 

January 30, 2019 

- 2 - 

This information will be updated as appropriate to reflect decisions of the Federal Open 
Market Committee or the Board of Governors regarding details of the Federal Reserve’s 
operational tools and approach used to implement monetary policy. 

More information regarding open market operations and reinvestments may be found on 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s website. 

