For release at 2 p.m. EDT  

April 28, 2021 

The Federal Reserve is committed to using its full range of tools to support the 
U.S. economy in this challenging time, thereby promoting its maximum employment 
and price stability goals. 

The COVID-19 pandemic is causing tremendous human and economic hardship 
across the United States and around the world.  Amid progress on vaccinations and 
strong policy support, indicators of economic activity and employment have 
strengthened.  The sectors most adversely affected by the pandemic remain weak but 
have shown improvement.  Inflation has risen, largely reflecting transitory factors.  
Overall financial conditions remain accommodative, in part reflecting policy 
measures to support the economy and the flow of credit to U.S. households and 
businesses.  

The path of the economy will depend significantly on the course of the virus, 
including progress on vaccinations.  The ongoing public health crisis continues to 
weigh on the economy, and risks to the economic outlook remain. 

The Committee seeks to achieve maximum employment and inflation at the rate 
of 2 percent over the longer run.  With inflation running persistently below this 
longer-run goal, the Committee will aim to achieve inflation moderately above 
2 percent for some time so that inflation averages 2 percent over time and longer‑term 
inflation expectations remain well anchored at 2 percent.  The Committee expects to 
maintain an accommodative stance of monetary policy until these outcomes are 
achieved.  The Committee decided to keep the target range for the federal funds rate 
at 0 to 1/4 percent and expects it will be appropriate to maintain this target range until 
labor market conditions have reached levels consistent with the Committee’s  

(more) 

For release at 2 p.m. EDT 

April 28, 2021 

-2- 

assessments of maximum employment and inflation has risen to 2 percent and is on 
track to moderately exceed 2 percent for some time.  In addition, the Federal Reserve 
will continue to increase its holdings of Treasury securities by at least $80 billion per 
month and of agency mortgage‑backed securities by at least $40 billion per month 
until substantial further progress has been made toward the Committee’s maximum 
employment and price stability goals.  These asset purchases help foster smooth 
market functioning and accommodative financial conditions, thereby supporting the 
flow of credit to households and businesses. 

In assessing the appropriate stance of monetary policy, the Committee will 
continue to monitor the implications of incoming information for the economic 
outlook.  The Committee would be prepared to adjust the stance of monetary policy 
as appropriate if risks emerge that could impede the attainment of the Committee’s 
goals.  The Committee’s assessments will take into account a wide range of 
information, including readings on public health, labor market conditions, inflation 
pressures and inflation expectations, and financial and international developments. 

Voting for the monetary policy action were Jerome H. Powell, Chair; John C. 
Williams, Vice Chair; Thomas I. Barkin; Raphael W. Bostic; Michelle W. Bowman; 
Lael Brainard; Richard H. Clarida; Mary C. Daly; Charles L. Evans; Randal K. 
Quarles; and Christopher J. Waller. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For release at 2 p.m. EDT 

April 28, 2021 

Decisions Regarding Monetary Policy Implementation 
The Federal Reserve has made the following decisions to implement the monetary policy 
stance announced by the Federal Open Market Committee in its statement on April 28, 
2021: 
• The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted unanimously to 
maintain the interest rate paid on required and excess reserve balances at 
0.10 percent, effective April 29, 2021.     
• As part of its policy decision, the Federal Open Market Committee voted to 
authorize and direct the Open Market Desk at the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York, until instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Open Market 
Account in accordance with the following domestic policy directive: 
“Effective April 29, 2021, the Federal Open Market Committee directs the Desk 
to: 

o Undertake open market operations as necessary to maintain the federal 
funds rate in a target range of 0 to 1/4 percent.   
o Increase the System Open Market Account holdings of Treasury 
securities by $80 billion per month and of agency mortgage-backed 
securities (MBS) by $40 billion per month.   
o Increase holdings of Treasury securities and agency MBS by additional 
amounts and purchase agency commercial mortgage-backed securities 
(CMBS) as needed to sustain smooth functioning of markets for these 
securities.  
o Conduct repurchase agreement operations to support effective policy 
implementation and the smooth functioning of short-term U.S. dollar 
funding markets.  
o Conduct overnight reverse repurchase agreement operations at an offering 
rate of 0.00 percent and with a per-counterparty limit of $80 billion per 
day; the per-counterparty limit can be temporarily increased at the 
discretion of the Chair.  
o Roll over at auction all principal payments from the Federal Reserve's 
holdings of Treasury securities and reinvest all principal payments from 
the Federal Reserve's holdings of agency debt and agency MBS in agency 
MBS. 
o Allow modest deviations from stated amounts for purchases and 
reinvestments, if needed for operational reasons. 
o Engage in dollar roll and coupon swap transactions as necessary to 
facilitate settlement of the Federal Reserve's agency MBS transactions.” 

(more) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For release at 2 p.m. EDT 

April 28, 2021 

-2- 

• 

In a related action, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
voted unanimously to approve the establishment of the primary credit rate at the 
existing level of 0.25 percent. 

This information will be updated as appropriate to reflect decisions of the Federal Open 
Market Committee or the Board of Governors regarding details of the Federal Reserve’s 
operational tools and approach used to implement monetary policy. 
More information regarding open market operations and reinvestments may be found on 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s website.   

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
