For release a t 2 p.m. EDT 

May 2, 2018 

Information received since the Federa l Open Market Committee met in March indicates tha t 
the labor market ha s continued to strengthen and that economic activity ha s been r ising a t a 
moderate rate.  Job gains have been strong, on average, in recent months, and the unemployment 
rate ha s stayed low.  Recent data suggest that growth of hou sehold spending modera ted from its 
strong fourth-quarter pace, while business fixed investment continued to grow strongly.  On a 
12-month basis, both overall inflation and inflation for items other than food and energy have 
moved close to 2 percent.  Market-ba sed mea sures of inflation compensation remain low; 
survey-based mea sures of longer-term inflation expecta tions are little changed, on balance. 
Consistent with its statutory manda te, the Committee seek s to foster maximum employment 
and price stability.  The Committee expects that, with further gradual adjustments in the stance 
of monetary policy, economic activity will expand at a moderate pace in the medium term and 
labor market conditions will remain strong.  Inflation on a 12 -month basis is expected to run near 
the Committee’s symmetric 2 percent objective over the medium term.  Risk s to the economic 
outlook appear roughly balanced. 
In view of realized and expected labor market conditions and inflation, the Committee 
decided to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate a t 1 -1/2 to 1 -3/4 percent .  The 
stance of monetary policy remains accommodative, thereby supporting strong labor market 
conditions and a sustained return to 2 percent inflation. 
In determining the timing and size of future adju stments to the target range for the federal 
funds ra te, the Committee will assess realized and expected economic conditions relative to its 
objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation.  This a ssessment will take into 
account a wide range of information, including measures of labor market conditions, indicators 
of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial and international 
developments.  The Committee will carefully monitor actual and expected inflation 
developments relative to its symmetr ic inflation goal .  The Committee expects tha t economic 

(more) 

 
 
 
 
For release a t 2 p.m. EDT 

May 2, 2018 

- 2 - 
conditions will evolve in a manner that will warrant further gradual increases in the federal funds 
rate; the federal funds rate is lik ely to remain, for some time, below levels that are expected to 
prevail in the longer run.  However , the actual pa th of the federal funds rate will depend on the 
economic outlook a s informed by incoming data. 
Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were Jerome H . Powell, Chairman; 
William C. Dudley, Vice Chairman; Thoma s I . Barkin; Raphael W . Bostic; Lael Brainard; 
Loretta J. Mester; Randal K. Quarles; and John C. Williams. 

- 0 - 

 
 
For release a t 2 p.m. EDT 

May 2, 2018 

Decisions Regarding Monetary Policy Implementation 

The Federal Reserve ha s made the following decisions to implement the monetary policy stance 
announced by the Federal Open Market Committee in its statement on May 2, 2018: 

• The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted unanimously to maintain 
the interest rate paid on required and excess reserve ba lances at 1.75 percent , effective 
May 3, 2018. 
• As part of its policy decision, the Federal Open Mark et Committee voted to authorize and 
direct the Open Mark et Desk at the Federa l Reserve Bank of New York, until instru cted 
otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Open Market Account in accordance 
with the following domestic policy directive: 

“Effective May 3, 2018, the Federal Open Market Committee directs the Desk to 
undertake open market operations a s necessary to maintain the federal funds rate 
in a target range of 1 -1/2 to 1 -3/4 percent, including overnight reverse repurcha se 
operations (and reverse repurcha se operations with maturities of more than one 
day when necessary to accommodate week end, holiday, or similar trading 
conventions) a t an offer ing rate of 1.50 percent, in amounts limited only by the 
value of Trea sury securities held outright in the System Open Market Account 
that are available for su ch operations and by a per-counterparty limit of 
$30 billion per day. 

The Committee directs the Desk to continu e rolling over at auction the amount of 
principal payments from the Federal Reserve's holdings of Trea sury secur ities 
maturing during each calendar month that exceeds $18 billion, and to reinvest in 
agency mor tgage-backed securities the amount of principal payments from the 
Federal Reserve's holdings of agency debt and agency mor tgage-backed securities 
received during each calendar month that exceeds $12 billion. Small deviations 
from these amounts for operational reasons are acceptable. 

The Committee also directs the Desk to engage in dollar roll and coupon swap 
transactions as necessary to facilita te settlement of the Federal Reserve's agency 
mortgage-back ed securities transactions.” 

• 

In a related action, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted 
unanimously to approve the establishment of the primary credit rate at the existing level 
of 2.25 percent. 

This information will be updated a s appropriate to reflect decisions of the Federal Open Market 
Committee or the Board of Governors regarding details of the Federal Reserve's operational tools 
and approach u sed to implement monetary policy. 

More information regarding open mark et operations and reinvestments may be found on the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York's website. 

 
