For release at 2 p.m. EDT 

March 21, 2018 

Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in January 
indicates that the labor market has continued to strengthen and that economic activity has 
been rising at a moderate rate.  Job gains have been strong in recent months, and the 
unemployment rate has stayed low.  Recent data suggest that growth rates of household 
spending and business fixed investment have moderated from their strong fourth-quarter 
readings.  On a 12-month basis, both overall inflation and inflation for items other than 
food and energy have continued to run below 2 percent.   Market-based measures of 
inflation compensation have increased in recent months but remain low; survey-based 
measures of longer-term inflation expectations are little changed, on balance. 
Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  The economic outlook has strengthened in recent 
months.  The Committee expects that, with further gradual adjustments in the stance of 
and labor market conditions will remain strong.  Inflation on a 12‑month basis is 
monetary policy, economic activity will expand at a moderate pace in the medium term 
expected to move up in coming months and to stabilize around the Committee’s 2 percent 
objective over the medium term.  Near-term risks to the economic outlook appear roughly 
balanced, but the Committee is monitoring inflation developments closely. 
Committee decided to raise the target range for the federal funds rate to 1‑1/2 to 1-3/4 
In view of realized and expected labor market conditions and inflation, the 
percent.  The stance of monetary policy remains accommodative, thereby supporting 
strong labor market conditions and a sustained return to 2 percent inflation. 
In determining the timing and size of future adjustments to the target range for the 
federal funds rate, the Committee will assess realized and expected economic conditions 
relative to its objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation.  This  

(more) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For release at 2 p.m. EDT 

March 21, 2018 

- 2 - 
assessment will take into account a wide range of information, including measures of 
labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and 
readings on financial and international developments.  The Committee will carefully 
monitor actual and expected inflation developments relative to its symmetric inflation 
goal.  The Committee expects that economic conditions will evolve in a manner that will 
warrant further gradual increases in the federal funds rate; the federal funds rate is likely 
to remain, for some time, below levels that are expected to prevail in the longer run.  
However, the actual path of the federal funds rate will depend on the economic outlook as 
informed by incoming data. 
Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were Jerome H. Powell, Chairman; 
William C. Dudley, Vice Chairman; Thomas I. Barkin; Raphael W. Bostic; Lael 
Brainard; Loretta J. Mester; Randal K. Quarles; and John C. Williams. 

- 0 - 

 
 
For release at 2 p.m. EDT 

March 21, 2018 

Decisions Regarding Monetary Policy Implementation 

The Federal Reserve has made the following decisions to implement the monetary policy stance 
announced by the Federal Open Market Committee in its statement on March 21, 2018: 

• The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted unanimously to raise the 
interest rate paid on required and excess reserve balances to 1.75 percent, effective March 
22, 2018. 

• As part of its policy decision, the Federal Open Market Committee voted to authorize and 
direct the Open Market Desk at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until instructed 
otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Open Market Account in accordance 
with the following domestic policy directive: 

“Effective March 22, 2018, the Federal Open Market Committee directs the Desk 
to undertake open market operations as necessary to maintain the federal funds 
rate in a target range of 1-1/2 to 1-3/4 percent, including overnight reverse 
repurchase operations (and reverse repurchase operations with maturities of more 
than one day when necessary to accommodate weekend, holiday, or similar 
trading conventions) at an offering rate of 1.50 percent, in amounts limited only 
by the value of Treasury securities held outright in the System Open Market 
Account that are available for such operations and by a per-counterparty limit of 
$30 billion per day. 

The Committee directs the Desk to continue rolling over at auction the amount of 
principal payments from the Federal Reserve’s holdings of Treasury securities 
maturing during March that exceeds $12 billion, and to continue reinvesting in 
agency mortgage-backed securities the amount of principal payments from the 
Federal Reserve’s holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed 
securities received during March that exceeds $8 billion.  Effective in April, the 
Committee directs the Desk to roll over at auction the amount of principal 
payments from the Federal Reserve’s holdings of Treasury securities maturing 
during each calendar month that exceeds $18 billion, and to reinvest in agency 
mortgage-backed securities the amount of principal payments from the Federal 
Reserve’s holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities 
received during each calendar month that exceeds $12 billion.  Small deviations 
from these amounts for operational reasons are acceptable. 

The Committee also directs the Desk to engage in dollar roll and coupon swap  

(more) 

 
 
 
 
For release at 2 p.m. EDT 

March 21, 2018 

- 2 - 

transactions as necessary to facilitate settlement of the Federal Reserve’s agency 
mortgage-backed securities transactions.” 

• 

In a related action, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted 
unanimously to approve a 1/4 percentage point increase in the primary credit rate to 2.25 
percent, effective March 22, 2018.  In taking this action, the Board approved requests to 
establish that rate submitted by the Boards of Directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of 
Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, St. Louis, Kansas City, 
Dallas, and San Francisco.  

This information will be updated as appropriate to reflect decisions of the Federal Open Market 
Committee or the Board of Governors regarding details of the Federal Reserve’s operational 
tools and approach used to implement monetary policy. 

More information regarding open market operations and reinvestments may be found on the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s website. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
