For release at 2 p.m. EST 

December 19, 2018 

Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in November 
indicates that the labor market has continued to strengthen and that economic activity has 
been rising at a strong rate.  Job gains have been strong, on average, in recent months, 
and the unemployment rate has remained low.  Household spending has continued to 
grow strongly, while growth of business fixed investment has moderated from its rapid 
pace earlier in the year.  On a 12-month basis, both overall inflation and inflation for 
items other than food and energy remain near 2 percent.  Indicators of longer-term 
inflation expectations are little changed, on balance. 
Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  The Committee judges that some further gradual 
increases in the target range for the federal funds rate will be consistent with sustained 
expansion of economic activity, strong labor market conditions, and inflation near the 
Committee’s symmetric 2 percent objective over the medium term.  The Committee 
judges that risks to the economic outlook are roughly balanced, but will continue to 
monitor global economic and financial developments and assess their implications for the 
economic outlook. 
In view of realized and expected labor market conditions and inflation, the 
Committee decided to raise the target range for the federal funds rate to 2-1/4 to 
2-1/2 percent. 
In determining the timing and size of future adjustments to the target range for the 
federal funds rate, the Committee will assess realized and expected economic conditions 
relative to its maximum employment objective and its symmetric 2 percent inflation 
objective.  This assessment will take into account a wide range of information, including 
measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation 

(more) 

 
 
 
 
 
For release at 2 p.m. EST 

December 19, 2018 

- 2 - 
expectations, and readings on financial and international developments. 
Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Jerome H. Powell, Chairman; 
John C. Williams, Vice Chairman; Thomas I. Barkin; Raphael W. Bostic; Michelle W. 
Bowman; Lael Brainard; Richard H. Clarida; Mary C. Daly; Loretta J. Mester; and 
Randal K. Quarles. 

- 0 - 

 
 
 
For release at 2 p.m. EST 

December 19, 2018 

Decisions Regarding Monetary Policy Implementation 

The Federal Reserve has made the following decisions to implement the monetary policy stance 
announced by the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) in its statement on December 19, 
2018: 

• The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted unanimously to raise the 
interest rate paid on required and excess reserve balances to 2.40 percent, effective 
December 20, 2018.  Setting the interest rate paid on required and excess reserve 
balances 10 basis points below the top of the target range for the federal funds rate is 
intended to foster trading in the federal funds market at rates well within the FOMC’s 
target range. 

• As part of its policy decision, the Federal Open Market Committee voted to authorize and 
direct the Open Market Desk at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until instructed 
otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Open Market Account in accordance 
with the following domestic policy directive:  

“Effective December 20, 2018, the Federal Open Market Committee directs the 
Desk to undertake open market operations as necessary to maintain the federal 
funds rate in a target range of 2-1/4 to 2-1/2 percent, including overnight reverse 
repurchase operations (and reverse repurchase operations with maturities of more 
than one day when necessary to accommodate weekend, holiday, or similar 
trading conventions) at an offering rate of 2.25 percent, in amounts limited only 
by the value of Treasury securities held outright in the System Open Market 
Account that are available for such operations and by a per-counterparty limit of 
$30 billion per day. 

The Committee directs the Desk to continue rolling over at auction the amount of 
principal payments from the Federal Reserve’s holdings of Treasury securities 
maturing during each calendar month that exceeds $30 billion, and to continue 
reinvesting in agency mortgage-backed securities the amount of principal 
payments from the Federal Reserve’s holdings of agency debt and agency 
mortgage-backed securities received during each calendar month that exceeds $20 
billion.  Small deviations from these amounts for operational reasons are 
acceptable. 

The Committee also directs the Desk to engage in dollar roll and coupon swap 
transactions as necessary to facilitate settlement of the Federal Reserve’s agency 
mortgage-backed securities transactions.” 

• 

In a related action, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted 
unanimously to approve a 1/4 percentage point increase in the primary credit rate to  

(more) 

 
For release at 2 p.m. EST 

December 19, 2018 

- 2 - 

3.00 percent, effective December 20, 2018.  In taking this action, the Board approved 
requests to establish that rate submitted by the Boards of Directors of the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Boston, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, and San Francisco.   

This information will be updated as appropriate to reflect decisions of the Federal Open Market 
Committee or the Board of Governors regarding details of the Federal Reserve’s operational 
tools and approach used to implement monetary policy. 

More information regarding open market operations and reinvestments may be found on the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s website. 

 
