For release at 2 p.m. EDT 

July 29, 2020 

The Federal Reserve is committed to using its full range of tools to support the 
U.S. economy in this challenging time, thereby promoting its maximum employment and 
price stability goals. 
The coronavirus outbreak is causing tremendous human and economic hardship 
across the United States and around the world.  Following sharp declines, economic 
activity and employment have picked up somewhat in recent months but remain well 
below their levels at the beginning of the year.  Weaker demand and significantly lower 
oil prices are holding down consumer price inflation.  Overall financial conditions have 
improved in recent months, in part reflecting policy measures to support the economy and 
the flow of credit to U.S. households and businesses. 
The path of the economy will depend significantly on the course of the virus.  The 
ongoing public health crisis will weigh heavily on economic activity, employment, and 
inflation in the near term, and poses considerable risks to the economic outlook over the 
medium term.  In light of these developments, the Committee decided to maintain the 
target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to 1/4 percent.  The Committee expects to 
maintain this target range until it is confident that the economy has weathered recent 
events and is on track to achieve its maximum employment and price stability goals. 
The Committee will continue to monitor the implications of incoming information 
for the economic outlook, including information related to public health, as well as global 
developments and muted inflation pressures, and will use its tools and act as appropriate 
to support the economy.  In determining the timing and size of future adjustments to the 
stance of monetary policy, the Committee will assess realized and expected economic 
conditions relative to its maximum employment objective and its symmetric 2 percent 
inflation objective.  This assessment will take into account a wide range of information, 
including measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and  
(more) 

For release at 2 p.m. EDT 

July 29, 2020 

- 2 - 

inflation expectations, and readings on financial and international developments. 
To support the flow of credit to households and businesses, over coming months 
the Federal Reserve will increase its holdings of Treasury securities and agency 
residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities at least at the current pace to 
sustain smooth market functioning, thereby fostering effective transmission of monetary 
policy to broader financial conditions.  In addition, the Open Market Desk will continue 
to offer large-scale overnight and term repurchase agreement operations.  The Committee 
will closely monitor developments and is prepared to adjust its plans as appropriate. 
Voting for the monetary policy action were Jerome H. Powell, Chair; John C. 
Williams, Vice Chair; Michelle W. Bowman; Lael Brainard; Richard H. Clarida; Patrick 
Harker; Robert S. Kaplan; Neel Kashkari; Loretta J. Mester; and Randal K. Quarles. 

- 0 - 

 
 
 
For release at 2 p.m. EDT 

July 29, 2020 

Decisions Regarding Monetary Policy Implementation 
The Federal Reserve has made the following decisions to implement the monetary policy 
stance announced by the Federal Open Market Committee in its statement on July 29, 
2020: 
• The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted unanimously to 
maintain the interest rate paid on required and excess reserve balances at 0.10 
percent, effective July 30, 2020.     
• As part of its policy decision, the Federal Open Market Committee voted to 
authorize and direct the Open Market Desk at the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York, until instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Open Market 
Account in accordance with the following domestic policy directive: 
“Effective July 30, 2020, the Federal Open Market Committee directs the Desk to: 
o Undertake open market operations as necessary to maintain the federal 
funds rate in a target range of 0 to 1/4 percent.   
o Increase the System Open Market Account holdings of Treasury 
securities, agency mortgage-backed securities (MBS), and agency 
commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) at least at the current 
pace to sustain smooth functioning of markets for these securities, thereby 
fostering effective transmission of monetary policy to broader financial 
conditions. 
o Conduct term and overnight repurchase agreement operations to support 
effective policy implementation and the smooth functioning of short-term 
U.S. dollar funding markets.  
o Conduct overnight reverse repurchase agreement operations at an offering 
rate of 0.00 percent and with a per-counterparty limit of $30 billion per 
day; the per-counterparty limit can be temporarily increased at the 
discretion of the Chair.  
o Roll over at auction all principal payments from the Federal Reserve's 
holdings of Treasury securities and reinvest all principal payments from 
the Federal Reserve's holdings of agency debt and agency MBS in agency 
MBS and all principal payments from holdings of agency CMBS in 
agency CMBS. 
o Allow modest deviations from stated amounts for purchases and 
reinvestments, if needed for operational reasons. 
o Engage in dollar roll and coupon swap transactions as necessary to 
facilitate settlement of the Federal Reserve's agency MBS transactions.” 

• 

In a related action, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted 
unanimously to approve the establishment of the primary credit rate at the existing 
level of 0.25 percent. 

 
 
For release at 2 p.m. EDT 

July 29, 2020 

- 2 - 

This information will be updated as appropriate to reflect decisions of the Federal Open 
Market Committee or the Board of Governors regarding details of the Federal Reserve’s 
operational tools and approach used to implement monetary policy. 
More information regarding open market operations and reinvestments may be found on 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s website. 

 
 
 
