For release at 2 p.m. EDT 

September 26, 2018 

Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in August indicates 
that the labor market has continued to strengthen and that economic activity has been rising at a 
strong rate.  Job gains have been strong, on average, in recent months, and the unemployment 
rate has stayed low.  Household spending and business fixed investment have grown strongly.  
On a 12-month basis, both overall inflation and inflation for items other than food and energy 
remain near 2 percent.  Indicators of longer-term inflation expectations are little changed, on 
balance. 
Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  The Committee expects that further gradual increases in the 
target range for the federal funds rate will be consistent with sustained expansion of economic 
activity, strong labor market conditions, and inflation near the Committee’s symmetric 2 percent 
objective over the medium term.  Risks to the economic outlook appear roughly balanced. 
In view of realized and expected labor market conditions and inflation, the Committee 
decided to raise the target range for the federal funds rate to 2 to 2-1/4 percent. 
In determining the timing and size of future adjustments to the target range for the federal 
funds rate, the Committee will assess realized and expected economic conditions relative to its 
maximum employment objective and its symmetric 2 percent inflation objective.  This 
assessment will take into account a wide range of information, including measures of labor 
market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on 
financial and international developments.  
Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Jerome H. Powell, Chairman;  
John C. Williams, Vice Chairman; Thomas I. Barkin; Raphael W. Bostic; Lael Brainard; 
Richard H. Clarida; Esther L. George; Loretta J. Mester; and Randal K. Quarles. 
- 0 - 

 
 
 
 
For release at 2 p.m. EDT 

September 26, 2018 

Decisions Regarding Monetary Policy Implementation 

The Federal Reserve has made the following decisions to implement the monetary policy stance 
announced by the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) in its statement on September 26, 
2018: 

• The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted unanimously to raise the 
interest rate paid on required and excess reserve balances to 2.20 percent, effective 
September 27, 2018.  

• As part of its policy decision, the Federal Open Market Committee voted to authorize and 
direct the Open Market Desk at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until instructed 
otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Open Market Account in accordance 
with the following domestic policy directive: 

“Effective September 27, 2018, the Federal Open Market Committee directs the 
Desk to undertake open market operations as necessary to maintain the federal 
funds rate in a target range of 2 to 2-1/4 percent, including overnight reverse 
repurchase operations (and reverse repurchase operations with maturities of more 
than one day when necessary to accommodate weekend, holiday, or similar 
trading conventions) at an offering rate of 2.00 percent, in amounts limited only 
by the value of Treasury securities held outright in the System Open Market 
Account that are available for such operations and by a per-counterparty limit of 
$30 billion per day. 

The Committee directs the Desk to continue rolling over at auction the amount of 
principal payments from the Federal Reserve’s holdings of Treasury securities 
maturing during September that exceeds $24 billion, and to continue reinvesting 
in agency mortgage-backed securities the amount of principal payments from the 
Federal Reserve’s holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed 
securities received during September that exceeds $16 billion.  Effective in 
October, the Committee directs the Desk to roll over at auction the amount of 
principal payments from the Federal Reserve’s holdings of Treasury securities 
maturing during each calendar month that exceeds $30 billion, and to reinvest in 
agency mortgage-backed securities the amount of principal payments from the 
Federal Reserve’s holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed 
securities received during each calendar month that exceeds $20 billion.  Small 
deviations from these amounts for operational reasons are acceptable. 

The Committee also directs the Desk to engage in dollar roll and coupon swap 
transactions as necessary to facilitate settlement of the Federal Reserve’s agency 
mortgage-backed securities transactions.” 

(more) 

 
 
 
 
For release at 2 p.m. EDT 

September 26, 2018 

- 2 - 

• 

In a related action, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted 
unanimously to approve a 1/4 percentage point increase in the primary credit rate to 
2.75 percent, effective September 27, 2018.  In taking this action, the Board approved 
requests to establish that rate submitted by the Boards of Directors of the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, 
Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco.   

This information will be updated as appropriate to reflect decisions of the Federal Open Market 
Committee or the Board of Governors regarding details of the Federal Reserve’s operational 
tools and approach used to implement monetary policy. 

More information regarding open market operations and reinvestments may be found on the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s website. 

