For release a t 2 p.m. EST 

December 13, 2017 

Information received since the Federa l Open Market Committee met in November 
indicates that the labor market ha s continued to strengthen and that economic activity ha s 
been r ising a t a solid rate.  Averaging through hurricane-related flu ctuations, job gains 
have been solid, and the unemployment rate declined further.  Household spending has 
been expanding at a moderate rate, and growth in bu siness fixed investment has pick ed 
up in recent quarters.  On a 12 -month ba sis, both overall inflation and inflation for items 
other than food and energy have declined this year and are running below 2 percent.  
Market-ba sed mea sures of inflation compensation rema in low; survey-ba sed mea sures of 
longer-term inflation expectations are little changed, on balance. 
Consistent with its statutory manda te, the Committee seek s to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  Hurricane-related disruptions and rebuilding have 
affected economic activity, employment, and inflation in recent months but have not 
materially altered the outlook for the national economy.  Consequently, the Committee 
continu es to expect that, with gradual adjustments in the stance of monetary policy, 
economic activity will expand at a moderate pace and labor mark et conditions will 
remain strong.  Inflation on a 12-month basis is expected to remain somewhat below 
2 percent in the near term but to stabilize around the Committee’s 2 percent objective 
over the medium term.  Near-term risks to the economic outlook appear roughly 
balanced, but the Committee is monitoring inflation developments closely. 
In view of realized and expected labor market conditions and inflation, the 
Committee decided to raise the target range for the federal funds rate to 1 -1/4 to 
1-1/2 percent.  The stance of monetary policy remains accommoda tive, thereby 
supporting strong labor mark et conditions and a su stained return to 2 percent inflation. 

(more) 

For release a t 2 p.m. EST 

December 13, 2017 

- 2 - 

In determining the timing and size of future adju stments to the target range for the 
federal funds rate, the Committee will a ssess realized and expected economic conditions 
relative to its objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation.  This 
assessment will take into account a wide range of information, including measures of 
labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and 
readings on financial and international developments.  The Committee will carefully 
monitor actual and expected inflation developments relative to its symmetric inflation 
goal .  The Committee expects that economic conditions will evolve in a manner that will 
warrant gradual increa ses in the federal funds ra te; the federal funds rate is likely to 
remain, for some time, below levels that are expected to prevail in the longer run.  
However, the actual path of the federal funds rate will depend on the economic outlook a s 
informed by incoming data.   
Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were Janet L. Yellen, Chair; 
William C. Dudley, Vice Chairman; Lael Brainard; Patrick Harker ; Rober t S. Kaplan; 
Jerome H. Powell; and Randal K. Quarles.  Voting against the action were Charles L . 
Evans and Neel Ka shkari, who preferred at this meeting to maintain the existing target 
range for the federal funds rate.  

- 0 - 

 
 
 
For release a t 2 p.m. EST 

December 13, 2017 

Decisions Regarding Monetary Policy Implementation 

The Federal Reserve ha s made the following decisions to implement the monetary policy stance 
announced by the Federal Open Market Committee in its statement on December 13, 2017: 

• The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted unanimously to raise the 
interest rate paid on required and excess reserve balances to 1.50 percent, effective 
December 14, 2017. 

• As part of its policy decision, the Federal Open Mark et Committee voted to authorize and 
direct the Open Mark et Desk at the Federa l Reserve Bank of New York, until instru cted 
otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Open Market Account in accordance 
with the following domestic policy directive:  

“Effective December 14, 2017, the Federal Open Mark et Committee directs the 
Desk to undertake open market operations a s necessary to maintain the federal 
funds ra te in a target range of 1-1/4 to 1-1/2 percent, including overnight reverse 
repurcha se operations (and reverse repurchase operations with maturities of more 
than one day when necessary to accommoda te week end, holiday, or similar 
trading conventions) at an offering rate of 1.25 percent, in amounts limited only 
by the valu e of Treasury securities held outright in the System Open Market 
Account that are available for su ch operations and by a per-counterpar ty limit of 
$30 billion per day. 

The Committee directs the Desk to continu e rolling over at auction the amount of 
principal payments from the Federal Reserve’s holdings of Treasury securities 
maturing during December that exceeds $6 billion, and to continue reinvesting in 
agency mor tgage-backed securities the amount of principal payments from the 
Federal Reserve’s holdings of agency debt and agency mor tgage-backed 
securities received during December that exceeds $4 billion.  Effective in January, 
the Committee directs the Desk to roll over at au ction the amount of principal 
payments from the Federal Reserve’s holdings of Treasury securities maturing 
during each calendar month that exceeds $12 billion, and to reinvest in agency 
mortgage-back ed securities the amount of principal payments from the Federal 
Reserve’s holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities 
received during each calendar month that exceeds $8 billion.  Small deviations 
from these amounts for operational reasons are acceptable.  

(more) 

 
 
 
 
For release a t 2 p.m. EST 

December 13, 2017 

- 2 - 

The Committee also directs the Desk to engage in dollar roll and coupon swap 
transactions as necessary to facilita te settlement of the Federal Reserve’s agency 
mortgage-back ed securities transactions.” 

• 

In a related action, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted 
unanimously to approve a 1/4 percentage point increase in the primary credit rate to 
2.00 percent, effective December 14, 2017.  In taking this action, the Board approved 
requests to establish that rate submitted by the Boards of Directors of the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Kansa s City, 
Dallas, and San Francisco.   

This information will be updated a s appropriate to reflect decisions of the Federal Open Market 
Committee or the Board of Governors regarding details of the Federal Reserve’s operational 
tools and approach u sed to implement monetary policy. 

More information regarding open mark et operations and reinvestments may be found on the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s website. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
