For re lea se at 2 p.m. EDT 

June 13, 2018 

Informat io n received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in May indicates 
that the labor market has continued to strengthe n and that economic activity has been rising at a 
solid rate.  Job gains have been strong, on average, in recent months, and the unemplo yme nt rate 
has declined.  Recent data suggest that growth of household spending has picked up, while 
business fixed investme nt has continued to grow strongly.  On a 12-month basis, both overall 
infla t io n and inflat io n for items other than food and energy have moved close to 2 percent.  
Indicators of longer- term infla t io n expectations are little changed, on balance. 
Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employme nt and price stability.  The Committee expects that further gradual increases in the 
target range for the federal funds rate will be consistent with sustained expansion of economic 
activity, strong labor market conditio ns, and inflat io n near the Committee's symmetr ic 2 percent 
objective over the medium term.  Risks to the economic outlook appear roughly balanced. 
In view of realized and expected labor market conditions and inflat io n, the Committe e 
decided to raise the target range for the federal funds rate to 1-3/4 to 2 percent.  The stance of 
monetary policy remains accommodative, thereby supporting strong labor market conditio ns and 
a sustained return to 2 percent inflat io n. 
In determining the timing and size of future adjustments to the target range for the federal 
funds rate, the Committee will assess realized and expected economic conditio ns relative to its 
maximum employme nt objective and its symmetr ic 2 percent inflat io n objective.  This 
assessment will take into account a wide range of informa t io n, includ ing measures of labor 
market conditio ns, indicators of inflat io n pressures and inflat io n expectations, and readings on 
financ ia l and internat io na l developments. 
Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were Jerome H. Powell, Chairman; 
William C. Dudley, Vice Chairma n; Thomas I. Barkin; Raphael W. Bostic; Lael Brainard; 
Loretta J. Mester; Randal K . Quarles; and John C. Williams. 

- 0 - 

 
 
 
For re lea se at 2 p.m. EDT 

June 13, 2018 

De cis ions Re garding M one tary Policy Impleme ntatio n 

The Federal Reserve has made the follow ing decisions to impleme nt the monetary policy stance 
announced by the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) in its statement on June 13, 2018: 

• The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted unanimo us ly to raise the 
interest rate paid on required and excess reserve balances to 1.95 percent, effective 
June 14, 2018.  Setting the interest rate paid on required and excess reserve balances 
5 basis points below the top of the target range for the federal funds rate is intended to 
foster trading in the federal funds market at rates well within the FOMC’s target range. 
• As part of its policy decision, the Federal Open Market Committee voted to authorize and 
direct the Open Market Desk at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until instructed 
otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Open Market Account in accordance 
with the follow ing domestic policy directive :  

“Effect ive June 14, 2018, the Federal Open Market Committee directs the Desk to 
undertake open market operations as necessary to mainta in the federal funds rate 
in a target range of 1-3/4 to 2 percent, includ ing overnight reverse repurchase 
operations (and reverse repurchase operations with maturit ies of more than one 
day when necessary to accommodate weekend, holiday, or similar trading 
conventio ns ) at an offering rate of 1.75 percent, in amounts limited only by the 
value of Treasury securities held outright in the System Open Market Account 
that are available for such operations and by a per-counterparty limit of 
$30 billio n per day. 

The Committee directs the Desk to continue rolling over at auction the amount of 
principa l payments from the Federal Reserve’s holdings of Treasury securit ies 
maturing during June that exceeds $18 billio n, and to continue reinvest ing in 
agency mortgage-backed securit ies the amount of principa l payments from the 
Federal Reserve’s holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed 
securities received during June that exceeds $12 billio n.  Effect ive in July, the 
Committee directs the Desk to roll over at auction the amount of principa l 
payments from the Federal Reserve’s holdings of Treasury securities maturing 
during each calendar month that exceeds $24 billio n, and to reinvest in agency 
mortgage-backed securitie s the amount of principa l payments from the Federal 
Reserve’s holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities 
received during each calendar month that exceeds $16 billio n.  Small deviatio ns 
from these amounts for operational reasons are acceptable. 

The Committee also directs the Desk to engage in dollar roll and coupon swap 
transactions as necessary to facilitate settleme nt of the Federal Reserve’s agency 
mortgage-backed securitie s transactions. ” 

(more) 

 
For re lea se at 2 p.m. EDT 

June 13, 2018 

- 2 - 

• 

In a related action, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted 
unanimo us ly to approve a 1/4 percentage point increase in the primary credit rate  to 2.50 
percent, effective June 14, 2018.  In taking this action, the Board approved requests to 
establish that rate submitted by the Boards of Directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of 
Boston, Philade lp hia, Cleveland, Richmo nd, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapo lis, 
Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco. 

This informa t io n will be updated as appropriate to reflect decisions of the Federal Open Market 
Committee or the Board of Governors regarding details of the Federal Reserve’s operational 
tools and approach used to impleme nt monetary policy. 

More informa t io n regarding open market operations and reinvestme nts may be found on the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s website. 

