For release at 2 p.m. EDT  

November 3, 2021 

The Federal Reserve is committed to using its full range of tools to support the 
U.S. economy in this challenging time, thereby promoting its maximum employment 
and price stability goals. 

With progress on vaccinations and strong policy support, indicators of economic 
activity and employment have continued to strengthen.  The sectors most adversely 
affected by the pandemic have improved in recent months, but the summer’s rise in 
COVID-19 cases has slowed their recovery.  Inflation is elevated, largely reflecting 
factors that are expected to be transitory.  Supply and demand imbalances related to 
the pandemic and the reopening of the economy have contributed to sizable price 
increases in some sectors.  Overall financial conditions remain accommodative, in 
part reflecting policy measures to support the economy and the flow of credit to U.S. 
households and businesses. 

The path of the economy continues to depend on the course of the virus.  Progress 
on vaccinations and an easing of supply constraints are expected to support continued 
gains in economic activity and employment as well as a reduction in inflation.  Risks 
to the economic outlook remain. 

The Committee seeks to achieve maximum employment and inflation at the rate 
of 2 percent over the longer run.  With inflation having run persistently below this 
2 percent for some time so that inflation averages 2 percent over time and longer‑term 
longer-run goal, the Committee will aim to achieve inflation moderately above 
inflation expectations remain well anchored at 2 percent.  The Committee expects to 
maintain an accommodative stance of monetary policy until these outcomes are 
achieved.  The Committee decided to keep the target range for the federal funds rate 

(more) 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For release at 2 p.m. EDT 

November 3, 2021 

-2- 

at 0 to 1/4 percent and expects it will be appropriate to maintain this target range until 
labor market conditions have reached levels consistent with the Committee’s 
assessments of maximum employment and inflation has risen to 2 percent and is on 
track to moderately exceed 2 percent for some time.  In light of the substantial further 
progress the economy has made toward the Committee’s goals since last December, 
the Committee decided to begin reducing the monthly pace of its net asset purchases 
by $10 billion for Treasury securities and $5 billion for agency mortgage-backed 
Treasury securities by at least $70 billion per month and of agency mortgage‑backed 
securities.  Beginning later this month, the Committee will increase its holdings of 
securities by at least $35 billion per month.  Beginning in December, the Committee 
will increase its holdings of Treasury securities by at least $60 billion per month and 
of agency mortgage-backed securities by at least $30 billion per month.  The 
Committee judges that similar reductions in the pace of net asset purchases will likely 
be appropriate each month, but it is prepared to adjust the pace of purchases if 
warranted by changes in the economic outlook.  The Federal Reserve’s ongoing 
purchases and holdings of securities will continue to foster smooth market 
functioning and accommodative financial conditions, thereby supporting the flow of 
credit to households and businesses. 

In assessing the appropriate stance of monetary policy, the Committee will 
continue to monitor the implications of incoming information for the economic 
outlook.  The Committee would be prepared to adjust the stance of monetary policy 
as appropriate if risks emerge that could impede the attainment of the Committee’s 
goals.  The Committee’s assessments will take into account a wide range of 
information, including readings on public health, labor market conditions, inflation 
pressures and inflation expectations, and financial and international developments. 

(more) 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For release at 2 p.m. EDT 

November 3, 2021 

-3- 

Voting for the monetary policy action were Jerome H. Powell, Chair; John C. 
Williams, Vice Chair; Thomas I. Barkin; Raphael W. Bostic; Michelle W. Bowman; Lael 
Brainard; Richard H. Clarida; Mary C. Daly; Charles L. Evans; Randal K. Quarles; and 
Christopher J. Waller. 

-0- 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For release at 2 p.m. EDT 

November 3, 2021 

Decisions Regarding Monetary Policy Implementation 
The Federal Reserve has made the following decisions to implement the monetary 
policy stance announced by the Federal Open Market Committee in its statement on 
November 3, 2021: 
• The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted unanimously to
maintain the interest rate paid on reserve balances at 0.15 percent, effective
November 4, 2021.
• As part of its policy decision, the Federal Open Market Committee voted to
authorize and direct the Open Market Desk at the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York, until instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Open Market
Account in accordance with the following domestic policy directive:
“Effective November 4, 2021, the Federal Open Market Committee directs the 
Desk to: 
o Undertake open market operations as necessary to maintain the
federal funds rate in a target range of 0 to 1/4 percent.
o Complete the increase in System Open Market Account (SOMA)
holdings of Treasury securities by $80 billion and of agency
mortgage-backed securities (MBS) by $40 billion, as indicated in the
monthly purchase plans released in mid-October.
o Increase the SOMA holdings of Treasury securities by $70 billion and
of agency MBS by $35 billion, during the monthly purchase period
beginning in mid-November.
o Increase the SOMA holdings of Treasury securities by $60 billion and
of agency MBS by $30 billion, during the monthly purchase period
beginning in mid-December.
o Increase holdings of Treasury securities and agency MBS by
additional amounts as needed to sustain smooth functioning of
markets for these securities.
o Conduct overnight repurchase agreement operations with a minimum
bid rate of 0.25 percent and with an aggregate operation limit of $500
billion; the aggregate operation limit can be temporarily increased at
the discretion of the Chair.
o Conduct overnight reverse repurchase agreement operations at an
offering rate of 0.05 percent and with a per-counterparty limit of $160
billion per day; the per-counterparty limit can be temporarily
increased at the discretion of the Chair.

(more) 

For release at 2 p.m. EDT 

November 3, 2021 

-2-

o Roll over at auction all principal payments from the Federal Reserve's
holdings of Treasury securities and reinvest all principal payments from
the Federal Reserve's holdings of agency debt and agency MBS in agency
MBS.
o Allow modest deviations from stated amounts for purchases and
reinvestments, if needed for operational reasons.
o Engage in dollar roll and coupon swap transactions as necessary to
facilitate settlement of the Federal Reserve's agency MBS transactions.”

•

In a related action, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted
unanimously to approve the establishment of the primary credit rate at the existing
level of 0.25 percent.
This information will be updated as appropriate to reflect decisions of the Federal Open 
Market Committee or the Board of Governors regarding details of the Federal Reserve’s 
operational tools and approach used to implement monetary policy. 
More information regarding open market operations and reinvestments may be found on 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s website. 

