For release at 2 p.m. EST 

November 8, 2018 

Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in September 
indicates that the labor market has continued to strengthen and that economic activity has 
been rising at a strong rate.  Job gains have been strong, on average, in recent months, 
and the unemployment rate has declined.  Household spending has continued to grow 
strongly, while growth of business fixed investment has moderated from its rapid pace 
earlier in the year.  On a 12-month basis, both overall inflation and inflation for items 
other than food and energy remain near 2 percent.  Indicators of longer-term inflation 
expectations are little changed, on balance. 
Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  The Committee expects that further gradual increases in 
the target range for the federal funds rate will be consistent with sustained expansion of 
economic activity, strong labor market conditions, and inflation near the Committee’s 
symmetric 2 percent objective over the medium term.  Risks to the economic outlook 
appear roughly balanced. 
In view of realized and expected labor market conditions and inflation, the 
Committee decided to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 2 to 
2-1/4 percent. 
In determining the timing and size of future adjustments to the target range for the 
federal funds rate, the Committee will assess realized and expected economic conditions 
relative to its maximum employment objective and its symmetric 2 percent inflation 
objective.  This assessment will take into account a wide range of information, including 
measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation 
expectations, and readings on financial and international developments.  
Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Jerome H. Powell, Chairman;  

(more) 

 
 
 
 
For release at 2 p.m. EST 

November 8, 2018 

- 2 - 
John C. Williams, Vice Chairman; Thomas I. Barkin; Raphael W. Bostic; Lael Brainard; 
Richard H. Clarida; Mary C. Daly; Loretta J. Mester; and Randal K. Quarles. 

- 0 - 

 
 
 
For release at 2 p.m. EST 

November 8, 2018 

Decisions Regarding Monetary Policy Implementation 

The Federal Reserve has made the following decisions to implement the monetary policy stance 
announced by the Federal Open Market Committee in its statement on November 8, 2018: 

• The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted unanimously to maintain 
the interest rate paid on required and excess reserve balances at 2.20 percent, effective 
November 9, 2018. 
• As part of its policy decision, the Federal Open Market Committee voted to authorize and 
direct the Open Market Desk at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until instructed 
otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Open Market Account in accordance 
with the following domestic policy directive:  

“Effective November 9, 2018, the Federal Open Market Committee directs the 
Desk to undertake open market operations as necessary to maintain the federal 
funds rate in a target range of 2 to 2-1/4 percent, including overnight reverse 
repurchase operations (and reverse repurchase operations with maturities of more 
than one day when necessary to accommodate weekend, holiday, or similar 
trading conventions) at an offering rate of 2.00 percent, in amounts limited only 
by the value of Treasury securities held outright in the System Open Market 
Account that are available for such operations and by a per-counterparty limit of 
$30 billion per day. 

The Committee directs the Desk to continue rolling over at auction the amount of 
principal payments from the Federal Reserve's holdings of Treasury securities 
maturing during each calendar month that exceeds $30 billion, and to continue 
reinvesting in agency mortgage-backed securities the amount of principal 
payments from the Federal Reserve's holdings of agency debt and agency 
mortgage-backed securities received during each calendar month that exceeds $20 
billion.  Small deviations from these amounts for operational reasons are 
acceptable. 

The Committee also directs the Desk to engage in dollar roll and coupon swap 
transactions as necessary to facilitate settlement of the Federal Reserve's agency 
mortgage-backed securities transactions.” 

• 

In a related action, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted 
unanimously to approve the establishment of the primary credit rate at the existing level 
of 2.75 percent. 

(more) 

 
 
 
For release at 2 p.m. EST 

November 8, 2018 

- 2 - 

This information will be updated as appropriate to reflect decisions of the Federal Open Market 
Committee or the Board of Governors regarding details of the Federal Reserve's operational tools 
and approach used to implement monetary policy. 

More information regarding open market operations and reinvestments may be found on the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York's website. 

 
