For re lea se at 2 p.m. EDT 

September 20, 2017 

Informat io n received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in July 
indicates that the labor market has continued to strengthen and that economic activity has 
been rising moderately so far this year.  Job gains have remained solid in recent months, 
and the unemplo yme nt rate has stayed low.  Household spending has been expanding at a 
moderate rate, and growth in business fixed investme nt has picked up in recent quarters.  
On a 12-month basis, overall inflat io n and the measure excluding food and energy prices 
have declined this year and are running below 2 percent.  Market-based measures of 
infla t io n compensatio n remain low; survey-based measures of longer- term infla t io n 
expectations are little changed, on balance. 
Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employme nt and price stability.  Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria have devastated 
many communit ies, inflict ing severe hardship.  Storm- related disruptio ns and rebuild ing 
will affect economic activity in the near term, but past experience suggests that the 
storms are unlike ly to materia lly alter the course of the national economy over the 
medium term.  Consequently, the Committe e continues to expect that, with gradual 
adjustments in the stance of monetary policy, economic activity will expand at a 
moderate pace, and labor market conditio ns will strengthe n somewhat further.  Higher 
prices for gasoline and some other items in the aftermath of the hurricane s will likely 
boost inflat io n temporarily; apart from that effect, inflat io n on a 12-month basis is 
expected to remain somewhat below 2 percent in the near term but to stabilize around the 
Committee’ s 2 percent objective over the medium term.  Near- term risks to the economic 
outlook appear roughly balanced, but the Committee is monitor ing inflat io n 
developments closely. 

(more) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For re lea se at 2 p.m. EDT 

September 20, 2017 

- 2 - 

In view of realized and expected labor market conditions and inflat io n, the 
Committee decided to mainta in the target range for the federal funds rate at 1 to 1-1/4 
percent.  The stance of monetary policy remains accommodat ive, thereby supporting 
some further strengthe ning in labor market conditio ns and a sustained return to 2 percent 
infla t io n. 
In determining the timing and size of future adjustments to the target range for the 
federal funds rate, the Committee will assess realized and expected economic conditions 
relative to its objectives of maximum employme nt and 2 percent infla t io n.  This 
assessment will take into account a wide range of informa t io n, includ ing measures of 
labor market conditio ns, indicators of inflat io n pressures and inflat io n expectations, and 
readings on financ ia l and internat io na l developments.  The Committee will carefully 
monitor actual and expected infla t io n developments relative to its symmetr ic inflat io n 
goal.  The Committe e expects that economic conditions will evolve in a manner that will 
warrant gradual increases in the federal funds rate; the federal funds rate is likely to 
remain, for some time, below levels that are expected to prevail in the longer run.  
However, the actual path of the federal funds rate will depend on the economic outlook as 
informed by incoming data. 
In October, the Committe e will init ia te the balance sheet normaliza t io n program 
described in the June 2017 Addendum to the Committee’ s Policy Normalizat io n 
Princip les and Plans.   
Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were:  Janet L. Yellen, Chair; 
William C. Dudley, Vice Chairma n; Lael Brainard; Charles L. Evans; Stanley Fischer; 
Patrick Harker; Robert S. Kaplan; Neel Kashkari; and Jerome H. Powell. 

- 0 - 

 
 
 
 
 
For re lea se at 2 p.m. EDT 

September 20, 2017 

De cis ions Re garding M one tary Policy Impleme ntatio n 

The Federal Reserve has made the follow ing decisions to impleme nt the monetary policy stance 
announced by the Federal Open Market Committee in its statement on September 20, 2017: 

• The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted unanimo us ly to mainta in 
the interest rate paid on required and excess reserve balances at 1.25 percent. 

• As part of its policy decision, the Federal Open Market Committee voted to authorize and 
direct the Open Market Desk at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until instructed 
otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Open Market Account in accordance 
with the follow ing domestic policy directive :  

“Effect ive September 21, 2017, the Federal Open Market Committee directs the 
Desk to undertake open market operations as necessary to mainta in the federal 
funds rate in a target range of 1 to 1-1/4 percent, includ ing overnight reverse 
repurchase operations (and reverse repurchase operations with maturit ies of more 
than one day when necessary to accommodate weekend, holiday, or simila r 
trading conventio ns) at an offering rate of 1.00 percent, in amounts limited only 
by the value of Treasury securit ies held outright in the System Open Market 
Account that are available for such operations and by a per-counterparty limit of 
$30 billio n per day. 

The Committee directs the Desk to continue rolling over at auction Treasury 
securities maturing during September, and to continue reinvest ing in agency 
mortgage-backed securitie s the principa l payments received through September 
from the Federal Reserve’s holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed 
securities.   

Effect ive in October 2017, the Committee directs the Desk to roll over at auction 
the amount of principa l payments from the Federal Reserve’s holdings of 
Treasury securities maturing during each calendar month that exceeds $6 billio n, 
and to reinvest in agency mortgage-backed securitie s the amount of principal 
payments from the Federal Reserve’s holdings of agency debt and agency 
mortgage-backed securitie s received during each calendar month that exceeds $4 
billio n.  Small deviatio ns from these amounts for operational reasons are 
acceptable.  

(more) 

 
 
 
 
For release at 2 p.m. EDT 

September 20, 2017 

- 2 -

The Committee also directs the Desk to engage in dollar roll and coupon swap 
transactions as necessary to facilitate settleme nt of the Federal Reserve's agency 
mortgage-backed securitie s transactions. ” 

•

In a related action, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted
unanimo us ly to approve the establishme nt of the primary credit rate at the existing level
of 1.75 percent.

This informa t io n will be updated as appropriate to reflect decisions of the Federal Open Market 
Committee or the Board of Governors regarding details of the Federal Reserve's operational tools 
and approach used to impleme nt monetary policy. 

More informa t io n regarding open market operations and the details of operational plans for 
reducing reinvestme nts may be found on the Federal Reserve Bank of New York's website. 

