For release a t 2 p.m. EST 

January 27, 2016 

Information received since the Federa l Open Market Committee met in December 
suggests that labor mark et conditions improved further even a s economic growth slowed late la st 
year .  Hou sehold spending and bu siness fixed investment have been increa sing at moderate ra tes 
in recent months, and the housing sector ha s improved further; however, net exports have been 
soft and inventory investment slowed.  A range of recent labor market indicators, including 
strong job gains, points to some additional decline in underutilization of labor resources.  
Inflation ha s continu ed to run below the Committee’s 2 percent longer-run objective, partly 
reflecting declines in energy prices and in prices of non-energy imports.  Ma rket -based mea sures 
of inflation compensation declined further; survey-ba sed mea sures of longer -term inflation 
expectations are little changed, on balance, in recent months. 
Consistent with its statutory manda te, the Committee seek s to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  The Committee currently expects that , with gradual adju stments 
in the stance of monetary policy, economic activity will expand at a moderate pace and labor 
market indicators will continu e to strengthen.  Inflation is expected to rema in low in the near 
term, in part becau se of the further declines in energy prices, but to r ise to 2 percent over the 
medium term a s the transitory effects of declines in energy and impor t prices dissipate and the 
labor market strengthens further .  The Committee is closely monitoring global economic and 
financial developments and is a ssessing their implications for the labor mark et and inflation, and 
for the balance of risks to the outlook. 
Given the economic outlook, the Committee decided to maintain the target range for the 
federal funds rate a t 1/4 to 1/2 percent.  The stance of monetary policy remains accommodative, 
thereby supporting further improvement in labor mark et conditions and a return to 2 percent 
inflation. 
In determining the timing and size of future adju stments to the target range for the federal  
(more) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-2 - 
funds ra te, the Committee will assess realized and expected economic conditions relative to its 
objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation.  This a ssessment will take into 
account a wide range of information, including measures of labor market conditions, indicators 
of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial and international 
developments.  In light of the current shortfall of inflation from 2 percent, the Committee will 
carefully monitor actual and expected progress toward its inflation goal .  The Committee expects 
that economic conditions will evolve in a manner that will warrant only gradual increases in the 
federal funds rate; the federal funds rate is lik ely to remain, for some time, below levels that are 
expected to prevail in the longer run.  However , the actual pa th of the federa l funds rate will 
depend on the economic outlook a s informed by incoming da ta. 
The Committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting pr incipal payments from 
its holdings of agency debt and agency mor tgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-back ed 
securities and of rolling over maturing Trea sury securities at au ction, and it anticipates doing so 
until normalization of the level of the federal funds rate is well under way.  This policy, by 
keeping the Committee’s holdings of longer -term securities a t sizable levels, should help 
maintain accommodative financial conditions. 
Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Janet L. Yellen, Chair ; William C. 
Dudley, Vice Chairman; Lael Brainard; James Bullard; Stanley Fischer; Esther L . George; 
Loretta J. Mester; Jerome H. Powell; Er ic Rosengren; and Daniel K. Tarullo.   

- 0 - 

 
 
 
January 27, 2016 

Decisions Regarding Monetary Policy Implementation 
The Federal Reserve ha s made the following decisions to implement the monetary policy 
stance announced by the Federal Open Mark et Committee in its statement on January 27 , 
2016:  
• The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System left unchanged the 
interest rate paid on required and excess reserve balances at 0.50 percent. 

• As part of its policy decision, the Federal Open Mark et Committee voted to 
authorize and direct the Open Mark et Desk at the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York, until instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Open 
Market Account in accordance with the following domestic policy directive: 

“Effective January 28, 2016, the Federa l Open Market Committee directs the 
Desk to undertake open market operations a s necessary to maintain the federal 
funds ra te in a target range of 1/4 to 1/2 percent, including overnight reverse 
repurcha se operations (and reverse repurchase operations with maturities of more 
than one day when necessary to accommoda te week end, holiday, or similar 
trading conventions) at an offering rate of 0.25 percent, in amounts limited only 
by the valu e of Treasury securities held outright in the System Open Market 
Account that are available for su ch operations and by a per -counterpar ty limit of 
$30 billion per day. 
The Committee directs the Desk to continu e rolling over maturing Treasury 
securities at auction and to continue reinvesting principal payments on all agency 
debt and agency mortgage-back ed securities in agency mor tgage-backed 
securities. The Committee also directs the Desk to engage in dollar roll and 
coupon swap transactions a s necessary to facilitate settlement of the Federal 
Reserve’s agency mortgage-backed securities transactions.” 
More information regarding open mark et operations may be found on the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York’s website. 
• The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System took no action to change 
the discount rate (the primary credit rate), which remains at 1.00 percent. 
This information will be updated a s appropriate to reflect decisions of the Federal Open 
Market Committee or the Board of Governors regarding details of the Federal Reserve’s 
operational tools and approach u sed to implement monetary policy. 

 
 
 
