For release at 2 p.m. EDT 

March 15, 2017 

Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in February 
indicates that the labor market has continued to strengthen and that economic activity has 
continued to expand at a moderate pace.  Job gains remained solid and the unemployment rate 
was little changed in recent months.  Household spending has continued to rise moderately while 
business fixed investment appears to have firmed somewhat.  Inflation has increased in recent 
quarters, moving close to the Committee’s 2 percent longer-run objective; excluding energy and 
food prices, inflation was little changed and continued to run somewhat below 2 percent.  
Market-based measures of inflation compensation remain low; survey-based measures of longer-
term inflation expectations are little changed, on balance.   
Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  The Committee expects that, with gradual adjustments in the 
stance of monetary policy, economic activity will expand at a moderate pace, labor market 
conditions will strengthen somewhat further, and inflation will stabilize around 2 percent over 
the medium term.  Near-term risks to the economic outlook appear roughly balanced.  The 
Committee continues to closely monitor inflation indicators and global economic and financial 
developments. 
In view of realized and expected labor market conditions and inflation, the Committee 
decided to raise the target range for the federal funds rate to 3/4 to 1 percent.  The stance of 
monetary policy remains accommodative, thereby supporting some further strengthening in labor 
market conditions and a sustained return to 2 percent inflation. 
In determining the timing and size of future adjustments to the target range for the federal 
funds rate, the Committee will assess realized and expected economic conditions relative to its 
objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation.  This assessment will take into 
account a wide range of information, including measures of labor market conditions, indicators  
(more) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For release at 2 p.m. EDT 

March 15, 2017 

- 2 - 
of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial and international 
developments.  The Committee will carefully monitor actual and expected inflation 
developments relative to its symmetric inflation goal.  The Committee expects that economic 
conditions will evolve in a manner that will warrant gradual increases in the federal funds rate; 
the federal funds rate is likely to remain, for some time, below levels that are expected to prevail 
in the longer run.  However, the actual path of the federal funds rate will depend on the economic 
outlook as informed by incoming data. 
The Committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from 
its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed 
securities and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction, and it anticipates doing so 
until normalization of the level of the federal funds rate is well under way.  This policy, by 
keeping the Committee’s holdings of longer-term securities at sizable levels, should help 
maintain accommodative financial conditions. 
Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Janet L. Yellen, Chair; William C. 
Dudley, Vice Chairman; Lael Brainard; Charles L. Evans; Stanley Fischer; Patrick Harker; 
Robert S. Kaplan; Jerome H. Powell; and Daniel K. Tarullo.  Voting against the action was Neel 
Kashkari, who preferred at this meeting to maintain the existing target range for the federal funds 
rate. 

- 0 - 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For release at 2 p.m. EDT 

        March 15, 2017 

Decisions Regarding Monetary Policy Implementation 

The Federal Reserve has made the following decisions to implement the monetary policy stance 
announced by the Federal Open Market Committee in its statement on March 15, 2017: 

• The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted unanimously to raise the 
interest rate paid on required and excess reserve balances to 1.00 percent, effective March 
16, 2017. 

• As part of its policy decision, the Federal Open Market Committee voted to authorize and 
direct the Open Market Desk at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until instructed 
otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Open Market Account in accordance 
with the following domestic policy directive:  

"Effective March 16, 2017, the Federal Open Market Committee directs the Desk 
to undertake open market operations as necessary to maintain the federal funds 
rate in a target range of 3/4 to 1 percent, including overnight reverse repurchase 
operations (and reverse repurchase operations with maturities of more than one 
day when necessary to accommodate weekend, holiday, or similar trading 
conventions) at an offering rate of 0.75 percent, in amounts limited only by the 
value of Treasury securities held outright in the System Open Market Account 
that are available for such operations and by a per-counterparty limit of 
$30 billion per day. 

The Committee directs the Desk to continue rolling over maturing Treasury 
securities at auction and to continue reinvesting principal payments on all agency 
debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed 
securities.  The Committee also directs the Desk to engage in dollar roll and 
coupon swap transactions as necessary to facilitate settlement of the Federal 
Reserve’s agency mortgage-backed securities transactions." 

More information regarding open market operations may be found on the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York’s website. 

• 

In a related action, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted 
unanimously to approve a 1/4 percentage point increase in the primary credit rate to 1.50 
percent, effective March 16, 2017.  In taking this action, the Board approved requests to 
establish that rate submitted by the Boards of Directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of 
Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas City, Dallas, and 
San Francisco. 

This information will be updated as appropriate to reflect decisions of the Federal Open 
Market Committee or the Board of Governors regarding details of the Federal Reserve’s 
operational tools and approach used to implement monetary policy. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
