For release at 2 p.m. EDT 

             June 19, 2019 

Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in May indicates 
that the labor market remains strong and that economic activity is rising at a moderate rate.  Job 
gains have been solid, on average, in recent months, and the unemployment rate has remained 
low.  Although growth of household spending appears to have picked up from earlier in the year, 
indicators of business fixed investment have been soft.  On a 12-month basis, overall inflation 
and inflation for items other than food and energy are running below 2 percent.  Market-based 
measures of inflation compensation have declined; survey-based measures of longer-term 
inflation expectations are little changed. 
Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  In support of these goals, the Committee decided to maintain 
the target range for the federal funds rate at 2-1/4 to 2-1/2 percent.  The Committee continues to 
view sustained expansion of economic activity, strong labor market conditions, and inflation near 
the Committee’s symmetric 2 percent objective as the most likely outcomes, but uncertainties 
about this outlook have increased.  In light of these uncertainties and muted inflation pressures, 
the Committee will closely monitor the implications of incoming information for the economic 
outlook and will act as appropriate to sustain the expansion, with a strong labor market and 
inflation near its symmetric 2 percent objective. 
In determining the timing and size of future adjustments to the target range for the federal 
funds rate, the Committee will assess realized and expected economic conditions relative to its 
maximum employment objective and its symmetric 2 percent inflation objective.  This 
assessment will take into account a wide range of information, including measures of labor 
market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on 
financial and international developments. 

(more) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For release at 2 p.m. EDT 

June 19, 2019 

- 2 - 
Voting for the monetary policy action were Jerome H. Powell, Chair; John C. Williams, 
Vice Chair; Michelle W. Bowman; Lael Brainard; Richard H. Clarida; Charles L. Evans; Esther 
L. George; Randal K. Quarles; and Eric S. Rosengren.  Voting against the action was James 
Bullard, who preferred at this meeting to lower the target range for the federal funds rate by 25 
basis points. 

- 0 - 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For release at 2 p.m. EDT  

                                                                                     June 19, 2019 

Decisions Regarding Monetary Policy Implementation 

The Federal Reserve has made the following decisions to implement the monetary policy stance 
announced by the Federal Open Market Committee in its statement on June 19, 2019: 

• The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted unanimously to maintain 
the interest rate paid on required and excess reserve balances at 2.35 percent, effective 
June 20, 2019.  
• As part of its policy decision, the Federal Open Market Committee voted to authorize and 
direct the Open Market Desk at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until instructed 
otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Open Market Account in accordance 
with the following domestic policy directive: 

“Effective June 20, 2019, the Federal Open Market Committee directs the Desk to 
undertake open market operations as necessary to maintain the federal funds rate 
in a target range of 2-1/4 to 2-1/2 percent, including overnight reverse repurchase 
operations (and reverse repurchase operations with maturities of more than one 
day when necessary to accommodate weekend, holiday, or similar trading 
conventions) at an offering rate of 2.25 percent, in amounts limited only by the 
value of Treasury securities held outright in the System Open Market Account 
that are available for such operations and by a per-counterparty limit of 
$30 billion per day. 

The Committee directs the Desk to continue rolling over at auction the amount of 
principal payments from the Federal Reserve’s holdings of Treasury securities 
maturing during each calendar month that exceeds $15 billion, and to continue 
reinvesting in agency mortgage-backed securities the amount of principal 
payments from the Federal Reserve’s holdings of agency debt and agency 
mortgage-backed securities received during each calendar month that exceeds 
$20 billion.  Small deviations from these amounts for operational reasons are 
acceptable. 

The Committee also directs the Desk to engage in dollar roll and coupon swap 
transactions as necessary to facilitate settlement of the Federal Reserve’s agency 
mortgage-backed securities transactions.” 

• 

In a related action, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted 
unanimously to approve the establishment of the primary credit rate at the existing level 
of 3.00 percent. 

(more) 

 
 
 
For release at 2 p.m. EDT  

June 19, 2019 

- 2 -

This information will be updated as appropriate to reflect decisions of the Federal Open Market 
Committee or the Board of Governors regarding details of the Federal Reserve’s operational 
tools and approach used to implement monetary policy. 

More information regarding open market operations and reinvestments may be found on the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s website. 

